README.adoc, before:

= RelatonOmg

image:https://img.shields.io/gem/v/relaton-omg.svg["Gem Version", link="https://rubygems.org/gems/relaton-omg"]
image:https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/workflows/macos/badge.svg["Build Status (macOS)", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/actions?workflow=macos"]
image:https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/workflows/windows/badge.svg["Build Status (Windows)", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/actions?workflow=windows"]
image:https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/workflows/ubuntu/badge.svg["Build Status (Ubuntu)", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/actions?workflow=ubuntu"]
image:https://codeclimate.com/github/relaton/relaton-omg/badges/gpa.svg["Code Climate", link="https://codeclimate.com/github/relaton/relaton-omg"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/relaton/relaton-omg.svg["Pull Requests", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/pulls"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/relaton/relaton-omg/latest.svg["Commits since latest",link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/releases"]

RelatonOmg is a Ruby gem that searches and fetches standards from https://www.omg.org[The Object Management Group (OMG)].

The standards scrape form https://www.omg.org/spec

== Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

[source,ruby]
----
gem 'relaton-omg'
----

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install relaton-omg

== Usage

=== Configuration

Configuration is optional. The available option is `logger` which is a `Logger` instance. By default, the logger is `Logger.new($stderr)` with `Logger::WARN` level. To change the logger level, use `RelatonOmg.configure` block.

[source,ruby]
----
require 'relaton_omg'
=> true

RelatonOmg.configure do |config|
  config.logger.level = Logger::DEBUG
end
----

=== Search document

Reference format is `OMG + {ACRONYM} + {VERSION}`

- `ACRONYM` is an acronym from the list of specs https://www.omg.org/spec/#all
- `VERSION` (optional) if omitted then the lastes version is fetched

[source,ruby]
----
item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliography.get 'OMG AMI4CCM 1.0'
[relaton-omg] (OMG AMI4CCM 1.0) Fetching from www.omg.org ...
[relaton-omg] (OMG AMI4CCM 1.0) Found: `AMI4CCM 1.0`
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x000000010435a520
...

# Return nil if the document doesn't exist.
RelatonOmg::OmgBibliography.get 'OMG 1111'
[relaton-omg] (OMG 1111) Fetching from www.omg.org ...
[relaton-omg] (OMG 1111) Not found.
=> nil
----

=== Serialization

[source,ruby]
----
item.to_xml
=> "<bibitem id="AMI4CCM1.0" schema-version="v1.2.8">
      <fetched>2022-12-05</fetched>
      <title type="main" format="text/plain" language="en" script="Latn">Asynchronous Method Invocation for CCM</title>
      <uri type="src">https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/About-AMI4CCM</uri>
      <uri type="pdf">https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/PDF</uri>
      <docidentifier type="OMG" primary="true">AMI4CCM 1.0</docidentifier>
      ...
    </bibitem>"
----

=== Typed links

OMG documents may have `src` and `pdf` link types.

[source,ruby]
----
item.link
=> [#<RelatonBib::TypedUri:0x00007fa897a72208 @content=#<Addressable::URI:0x80c URI:https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/About-AMI4CCM/>, @type="src">,
 #<RelatonBib::TypedUri:0x00007fa897a71600 @content=#<Addressable::URI:0x820 URI:https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/PDF>, @type="pdf">]
----

=== Create bibliographic item from XML

[source,ruby]
----
item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem.from_xml 'spec/fixtures/omg_ami4ccm_1_0.xml'
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x007fb351582e90
...
----

=== Create bibliographic item from Hash
[source,ruby]
----
hash = YAML.load_file 'spec/fixtures/omg_ami4ccm_1_0.yaml'
=> {"schema-version"=>"v1.2.8",
 "id"=>"AMI4CCM1.0",
...

item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem.from_hash hash
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x007f85b0247ec0
...
----

=== Create bibliographic item from YAML
[source,ruby]
----
item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem.from_yaml 'spec/fixtures/omg_ami4ccm_1_0.yaml'
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x007f85a00f45d8
...
----

== Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/relaton/relaton-ietf.

== License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Update logger (#11)
* Switch to using relaton-logger to log messages

* fix base64 issue with Ruby 3.4

README.adoc, after:

= RelatonOmg

image:https://img.shields.io/gem/v/relaton-omg.svg["Gem Version", link="https://rubygems.org/gems/relaton-omg"]
image:https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/workflows/macos/badge.svg["Build Status (macOS)", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/actions?workflow=macos"]
image:https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/workflows/windows/badge.svg["Build Status (Windows)", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/actions?workflow=windows"]
image:https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/workflows/ubuntu/badge.svg["Build Status (Ubuntu)", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/actions?workflow=ubuntu"]
image:https://codeclimate.com/github/relaton/relaton-omg/badges/gpa.svg["Code Climate", link="https://codeclimate.com/github/relaton/relaton-omg"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/relaton/relaton-omg.svg["Pull Requests", link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/pulls"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/relaton/relaton-omg/latest.svg["Commits since latest",link="https://github.com/relaton/relaton-omg/releases"]

RelatonOmg is a Ruby gem that searches and fetches standards from https://www.omg.org[The Object Management Group (OMG)].

The standards scrape form https://www.omg.org/spec

== Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

[source,ruby]
----
gem 'relaton-omg'
----

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install relaton-omg

== Usage

=== Search document

Reference format is `OMG + {ACRONYM} + {VERSION}`

- `ACRONYM` is an acronym from the list of specs https://www.omg.org/spec/#all
- `VERSION` (optional) if omitted then the lastes version is fetched

[source,ruby]
----
require 'relaton_omg'
=> true

item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliography.get 'OMG AMI4CCM 1.0'
[relaton-omg] (OMG AMI4CCM 1.0) Fetching from www.omg.org ...
[relaton-omg] (OMG AMI4CCM 1.0) Found: `AMI4CCM 1.0`
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x000000010435a520
...

# Return nil if the document doesn't exist.
RelatonOmg::OmgBibliography.get 'OMG 1111'
[relaton-omg] (OMG 1111) Fetching from www.omg.org ...
[relaton-omg] (OMG 1111) Not found.
=> nil
----

=== Serialization

[source,ruby]
----
item.to_xml
=> "<bibitem id="AMI4CCM1.0" schema-version="v1.2.9">
      <fetched>2022-12-05</fetched>
      <title type="main" format="text/plain" language="en" script="Latn">Asynchronous Method Invocation for CCM</title>
      <uri type="src">https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/About-AMI4CCM</uri>
      <uri type="pdf">https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/PDF</uri>
      <docidentifier type="OMG" primary="true">AMI4CCM 1.0</docidentifier>
      ...
    </bibitem>"
----

=== Typed links

OMG documents may have `src` and `pdf` link types.

[source,ruby]
----
item.link
=> [#<RelatonBib::TypedUri:0x00007fa897a72208 @content=#<Addressable::URI:0x80c URI:https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/About-AMI4CCM/>, @type="src">,
 #<RelatonBib::TypedUri:0x00007fa897a71600 @content=#<Addressable::URI:0x820 URI:https://www.omg.org/spec/AMI4CCM/1.0/PDF>, @type="pdf">]
----

=== Create bibliographic item from XML

[source,ruby]
----
item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem.from_xml 'spec/fixtures/omg_ami4ccm_1_0.xml'
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x007fb351582e90
...
----

=== Create bibliographic item from Hash
[source,ruby]
----
hash = YAML.load_file 'spec/fixtures/omg_ami4ccm_1_0.yaml'
=> {"schema-version"=>"v1.2.9",
 "id"=>"AMI4CCM1.0",
...

item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem.from_hash hash
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x007f85b0247ec0
...
----

=== Create bibliographic item from YAML
[source,ruby]
----
item = RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem.from_yaml 'spec/fixtures/omg_ami4ccm_1_0.yaml'
=> #<RelatonOmg::OmgBibliographicItem:0x007f85a00f45d8
...
----

=== Logging

RelatonOmg uses the relaton-logger gem for logging. By default, it logs to STDOUT. To change the log levels and add other loggers, read the https://github.com/relaton/relaton-logger#usage[relaton-logger] documentation.

== Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/relaton/relaton-ietf.

== License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
